---
weight: 601
title: Romans 6:1-2 - Spiritual Depression
authors: Lenny
categories: null
tags: [Depression, "Martyn Lloyd-Jones 钟马田"]
date: "2022-08-18"
description: 
draft: false
lastmod: "2022-08-18"
series:
toc: true
---
The Book of Romans 罗马书  

(罗六1-2) 

<!--more-->
---

<iframe width="360" height="200" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/j6oJs9KtM8w?list=PLvVtziP2bL63lqmHXLxpRE_PQ2pSMgh9G" title="Dead to Sin – A Sermon on Romans 6:1-2" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I'd like to call your attention this morning to the first two verses in the sixth chapter of Paul's epistle to the Romans, the epistle to the Romans chapter six, and the first two verses, what shall we say them? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? And I want to deal particularly with that second verse and the parallel similar complementary statements, which are found in this chapter, God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? Now the apostle liberal, this sixth chapter in the following chapters, in reply to that question that he puts forward in this first verse, What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, the grace may abound? It wasn't that he himself thought of that question. That he knew that many of you possibly in Rome, and certainly many elsewhere, were very definitely raising that question in the light of the apostles own teaching. And it's a question that the natural mind will always rails. When it reads the kind of thing that the apostle says in the fifth chapter of this epistle to the Romans. There he had been working out his great doctrine of the imputation of the righteousness of Christ to the believer. well rounded up in that magnificent statement of his, where sin abounded, grace did much more about and at once the natural mind says, Well, of course, if that's, if it's true to say, in a sense that the more sin the bounds of grace knows much more about, well, let us sin, the more ways in the more grace will abound. So Grace becomes a wonderful cloudvisit Indeed, almost an encouragement to say, the apostle never knew that many did argue in that way, he was constantly being charged with teaching what is called antinomianism. That his gospel of grace was such as to give the impression that Law no longer counted in any sense at all, and that sin didn't matter, that nothing mattered serve this wonderful grace of God that covered our sins in such an overwhelming manner. Surely, your personal bias teacher, as he was, anticipates this criticism, even from the judge had grown, and takes it up at once and deals with it. He rejects it with her God for that reason. And then he goes on to say, however, not only is it unreasonable, and an utterly false deduction to draw from his teaching, that that Furthermore, anybody who ever thinks like that, who speaks like that, is showing quite clearly that he's never understood the doctrine. For the doctrine of Paul, truly understood, is a doctrine which teaches not only that grace does not incite one to sin. But that grace, in a sense makes it impossible for one to sin. And that ultimately, its grand purpose is to deliver us entirely from sin, and all its consequences. Now, that is what the Apostle does. Now, I'm calling your attention to it all this morning. Not precisely in that way, but from a slightly different angle. It's the same argument Exactly. But we are going to deal with his argument not in reply to this theoretical question that he poses, but in a slightly more practical manner. We have been engaged for a number of Sunday mornings. Now, with this problem, this question which we have described as spiritual depression. We are considering the case of the miserable Christian. The case of men and women who, while clearly Christian, are not happy in their Christian lives and they're not enjoying their Christian lives. We are considering the case of those Christians whose lives in to be bound in shallows and in miseries.  
And we've been considering some of the greatest causes of that and applying the remedy and the cure, which is provided for us in the New Testament scriptures. Now, we can refer to another cause of this depression. This defeatism is unhappiness in the Christian life as it afflicts so many. And the particular one that obviously is dealt with here is depression, or disappointment or unhappiness in the Christian life, which arises from a sense of failure in living the Christian life. The sense of depression that arises because we tend to feel that we are being conquered by sin, rather than conquering sin. There are many people like that they've been Christians for years, and yet they are unhappy, and they're always analyzing themselves and condemning themselves. And this is the cause they say, I don't seem to be living the Christian life as it should be lived. I'm not getting this sense of victory and of Congress. They are aware of failure in the actual practical living of the Christian love, and particularly in this whole question of the conflict with sin and with evil, and with temptation. Now, that's a very great subject, of course, and there are many causes for that failure, and many causes of that feeling. That we can be perfectly settled. That the main goal, the fundamental cause, of which all the other causes are better subsidiary manifestations. The central cause, is the thing that the apostle deals within this chapter. And that is, I say, a failure to realize our true and full relationship to the death of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. And that is the thing that which I want to call your attention this morning. This is Palm Sunday. Now the apostles throne concern here is to deliver Nolan women from that appalling misunderstanding and incomplete understanding of the death of the Lord Jesus Christ upon the cross. Their organizing, say that I know that raises a future without us this profound question. What exactly was happening? What was it? What's it mean? What does it really say to us? God granted, we may take hold upon this, not only that our thinking may be adequate during these coming days. But in order that we may enter into the glorious liberty of the children of God, it is only a true understanding of the crust that does that. And all sanctification comes out of the cross. The cross is central in all these matters very well. What is it? Well, Norlander answer is this. The Apostle rarely has been giving the whole answer in the previous chapter. The fifth chapter, not the whole answer, but the basic consideration it's there starting at that 12 verse where we began to read in the fifth chapter and it runs right through this present Sixth Chapter, and indeed goes on also to the separate. The writer understand what really happened on the cross on Calvary ZIL is to know something about the biblical doctrine of the covenant. The biblical doctrine of the covenant. I say you don't begin to understand the cross until you understand the government. What do I mean by that? I mean this. The way to approach the cross is to understand the great covenant that was made between God the Father and God, the Son before the very foundation of the world. The Covenant was there made between the Father and the Son, and it was this. God knew that men was going to send them going to fall in love all the consequences of sin and the fall. And he made a covenant with his son, and he gave unto his son, certain people out of humanity, who ought to be redeemed and rescued.  
And the sun came into the world to do with it. You remember how he puts it himself in his great high priestly prayer, that just under the very shadow of the cross, listen, as though has given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou has given him? Read again, the 17th of John. It's a great exposition of this idea of the covenant. God has given these people to the sun, and the sun came into the world to do something to redeem and to rescue those people. And furthermore, it goes on to say this that All these people are in union with the Lord Jesus Christ. They are all done to him. Now take this great working out of the argument in the fifth chapter of this epistle to the Romans, did you notice it here as the argument, gold keeps on saying that the relationship of Christians to the Lord Jesus Christ, is exactly the same, as was the relationship of the whole of mankind to Adam. You notice how he kept on saying it, as in Adam. So in Christ, he repeats that argument in the first Epistle to the Corinthians and in the 15th chapter, but here it is, as by one man's offense show by one man's obedience. Adam, Christ, it's an exact parallel. And this is his argument. In Adam II tells us, the whole human race fell quite well for this reason that Adam was not only the head of the human race, he was also the representative of the human race. The whole of the human race was a Madden, more of our God appointed Adam as the February headend, representative of the entire human race. So this is what happens. When Adam sinned and fellow the entire human race, sin then fell with him. That's the argument of the Fifth Amendment. Read it again for yourselves at leisure is as well for us by one min sin entered into the world and death by sin. And so death passed upon. All men felt that all have sinned, and they all sinned in it is his one transgression that it's no use saying that you don't like that sort of statement. You either accept the scripture or you don't. So you're saying, I think it's unfair, my dear, my dear friend, are you kidding you a little mind against that of God and God's gracious purpose. That is the teaching of the scripture, that we are all in Adam, and we've all fallen with Adam. And we've all derived the consequences of Adam's sin, that is the doctrine of original sin and of original guilt. But thank God for the bat, for a brings in the entire Gospel. Now comes the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And the statement and the argument is, that all who believe in Him now we're in the same relationship to him, the Lord Jesus Christ, as they were before to enter with the Lord Jesus Christ, in a vital and in a mystical sense, the Father has given us to him, and we are joined to Him, He is in us and we are in Him, the union of the believer with Christ. It's a great doctrine in the scripture, and I am suggesting this month, we cannot possibly understand the true meaning of the cross, unless we are clear about this doctrine of the covenant and of the mystical union of believers, with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that what does it mean? It means that
all that happened to him, has also happened to us that ad, Adam sin, because of the relationship, we sinned with Him.  
Christ has done certain things, because of the relationship that subsists between us, we have also done those things. That's the argument of these two chapters. The Lord Jesus Christ, you say died on our behalf. Yes, perfectly true. But it is equally true to say this, that as he was doing it all, we were doing it in him and with him. That's the proof. That's the that's the case. So we are told a number of things in this chapter. And elsewhere in the scriptures, here are some. We are told that we were crucified, where the hymn the apostle goes on saying that not only in this epistle, but in the Epistle to the Galatians and elsewhere. You have been crucified with Christ. I was crucified with Christ Caesar. salad on the cross and Gaver it isn't simply that the Son of God was being crucified. I was being crucified with him because I am in Him, I am bound to him. Not only that we've died with him. No, you're not that so many of us. were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death. We are baptized into him forget what a baptism at that point, the important thing is that we it means that we are incorporated into him. That is the way he describes the union don't, the means don't matter at that point at all. The fact is that we are baptized into Christ. We have all says the apostle again in one Corinthians 12, verse 13, we have all been baptized by one spirit into this one body, the body of Christ, which is the church, that's it, now than there is the indissoluble union. And therefore he says, because of that we have died with him. Indeed, he goes further, we are buried with Him, we have been buried with him, by baptism into this. You'll see everything that's happened to him has happened to us. That's the inevitable conclusion which you must draw from this doctrine of the covenant and of the Union. And then he goes on to say that we're not only buried with him, but that we've also reason with him, of course, we must, everything that happens to him has happened to us. If we are one with Him, nothing happens to him. But it happens to us also. So we are reasonable. Again, if he therefore be reasoned with Christ, He says, God willing, we are going to consider that next Sunday morning. And indeed, the apostle, you remember, goes even further, in the second chapter of the epistle to the Ephesians, in the fifth Les, where he actually says that we've not only been quickened with him, and raised with Him, but that we are seated with Him in the heavenly places. And we must be if this doctrine of the union is correct, and it's the whole teaching of the Scripture, everything that happens to him happens to us. So we are seated with Him in the heavenly places. Now that there, then Eiser are the specific actual statements which are made here by the apostle. And his concern is to say that in the light of all this, this argument of let us continue in sin, that grace may be abandoned something that is utterly inconceivable, indeed, it is impossible, it can't happen. That we this morning are concerned in particular with this aspect of the crucifixion, and the death. What are we told about that? Well, there are certain statements again, which are made here and which the apostle makes elsewhere. And I must call your attention to the first thing that he tells us, therefore that must be true of us, because of all that is this. We Deb does it. That's the second verse, God forbid, he says, How shall we that are dead doesn't live any longer than now at this point? The Authorized Version is not only poor and weak, but it's misleading. This is one of those cases where the revised version is altogether superior. What it really is saying is that, God forbid, how shall we, that have died to sin, live any longer than it isn't our death, it's something that's happening once and for all, we have died to sin. That's their personal statement. He then goes on to show how we have died to sin, because of this human being baptized into him and effort into everything that happened to him. But here's the result. We have died to sin.
Every Christian is a person who has died to sin. Now, that's not an argument. It's a categorical statement. But again, he's puts it like this in the six verse, knowing this, that our old men is crucified with Him, again, takes a revised version. Our old men was crucified with Him. When was my old man crucified with him when he was crucified on the cross on Calvary, Zil. That's the significance of the cross. My old men, my old nature, rouse has been crucified with Christ. It's happening. That's the sixth verse of this sixth chapter of the epistle to the Romans. And then there are other statements which he deduces, and he puts them in this form. The result of all this is that we will Christians are dead to the law. We have died to the law. I'll explain in a moment what that means. But the categorical fact is that we have died, we are dead to the law. And again, he puts it like this In Galatians, six in the 14th minutes, God forbid that I should glory saving the cross, or my Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world has been crucified unto me, and I have been crucified onto the web. I have been crucified unto the world, and the world has been crucified unto me. Those are his deductions. And finally, he has this astounding statement in the third chapter of the addition to the Colossians in the third verse, you are definitely you are, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Now, here surely, are the most momentous statements that can ever confront us while we are in this life. What's it all mean? What's it all a mountain? What am I to say to myself in the light of all these things? Now, here are the deductions which I would put for your consideration. The first is this, that all these things are facts. They are not something that I am to regard as if they were facts. That isn't what the apostle is saying. All this doctrine is a statement of fact, though, let me put it in as bold and as blunt and as challenging manner as I can, I'll put it like this. I am as much in Christ at this moment as I shall ever be. You agree with it, I am as much in Christ now, as I shall be when I'm in the glory 
its effect, it is something that has happened. It is something that has been done by God. I have died with him. I have been buried with him. I have originally with I am seated with Him in the heavenly places. Let's be clear about this. My knowledge of that and my realization of that can grow and increase and develop and they should. But as to the fact itself, that can't grow, that can't develop. You're either in Christ or Asia, not in Christ, you can't be partly in them partly out, you can't be going in and out. You are either in Christ forever, or you're not in Christ. The thing itself is effect. And you know what our troubles and half our depressions are due to this, that we confuse the fact and our consciousness of it. I was talking in this pulpit last Friday night about Martin Luther and the Reformation. And the doctrine of justification by faith only, you know, it was the realization of that that set that men free. He'd never realized the difference between the fact of the consciousness of it. And it was when he came to realize the fact that his soul was set at liberty and he began to sing, and the whole world began to sing in the glorious Protestant doctrine. And here it is, again. I say that I am in Christ, my realisation of it various that the fact is an absolute it's an eternal fact
that's the argument of the apostle and therefore all these things are of necessity through just a second reduction therefore I am never called upon in the scripture to crucify myself. Never.
The Scripture never calls upon me to crucify myself or to crucify the old men that is that we are often don't to do that all we know this is how this doctrine of the cross is often preached. People say Christ has been crucified for you. All that remains now is that you submit to be crucified yourself with him. And you heard it like that. That's how it's genuinely preached. Christ has been crucified for you. But now you have got to give yourself up to crucifixion with him, I say that that is totally and completely unscriptural it is something that is never found in the Scripture at all. Because it's something that you won't I cannot do. I'll tell you something still more wonderful. If you're a Christian, you have no need to do that for this good reason. It's already happened. I haven't been crucified with Christ. I was crucified with Christ when He died on the cross on Calvary, Zil. It's happening there. I'm not called upon to crucify myself because the thing has already taken place. When he died, I died with him, you are dead. I literally had no longer i I have been crucified with Christ. So my friends, let's be careful of that false devotional attitude towards the crush. Which has ever been the bane of patriotism. It's quite wrong. Yes, you are told to crucify the flesh, minutes, affections. And at last, you were told to modify your members which are on the earth, but what you're never told to do is to crucify yourself. And if you're trying to, you're wasting your time, it's you'll never do it. And it's quite unnecessary, I say the thing to do is to realize that it's happened. Knowing this, listen to it again, knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him.
It's taking place on Calvary structure. So that I go on to my third conclusion, which is this.
The old at Demmick men that I once was, is dead, and is no longer in existence. Let me open that up just a little. Every one of us born into this world is born a child of Allah. We inherited from him that old sinful nature, which is governed and controlled by sin and is a thirst about the natural. The carnal mind is enmity against God is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. And we're all born like that. We are all born God haters. We are all born rebels against God, every one of us without a single exception. Every child born into this world starts with a prejudice against God. We all dislike him and hate him. We wish he wasn't there. But you say that's going to die. It's true of every one of us. And it is only as we are taught and I've given to see him to know the truth that we get rid of it. It's in everybody. That's my old Adamic nature. But this is the glorious truth. I'm no longer that. My your that dynamic nature died when Christ upon the cross. It wasn't only Christ there was dying there. My world men was down with him. He took on him human nature, he took on him arsons, he was made fun for us. And that is how it happened. We were dying with him, all for whom he came died with him that that he must give eternal life to them. So that we must say with the apostle here that our old man was has been crucified with him, and he's no longer here. Now I assert that and we must all assert that. And that's the way to get rid of spiritual depression. And that's the way to put the spotlight to say I am no longer a child of Adam. I am in Christ, that all the damage man has been dealt with once and forever and can never come back. You see, it's only when you say something like that, that people begin to think you're preaching anti communism. And it was because he said things like that people thought Paul was preaching antinomianism it's the charge that's always been brought against this great doctrine of grace, but it's inevitable. So I go on to another reduction to put it still struggling. The law as a system set against me, and that condemns me is no longer that as far as I am concerned. Now you'll notice what I say. That doesn't mean that you and I don't have to keep the 10 commandments. I say that the law as a system set against me and under which I'm living and which is condemning me, as far as I am concerned as a Christian is no longer in existence. I am dead to the law and the law is dead to me. Because of Christ's perfect work with respect to it Let me carry on to the next conclusion which puts all that positively listen to Paul saying it. There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. But you say, how can that be true because I sin, and I'm conscious of sin and failure and I made unhappy donation. Does that mean that Paul was claiming sinless perfection? Of course it doesn't. What Paul is saying is this, that I am no longer under condemnation. There is never no longer any condemnation for me for this reason, that the man named me that was under the law has died with Christ, I am no longer under the condemnation of the mall. Of course, I feel condemned when I sin, but I go to God, and I confess it, and the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses me, I no longer under a scathing condemnation that has been finished. I am out of the court, I'm a free man, the court has nothing more to do with me, I have passed from judgment to life. Those are scriptural statements. And you see, it is only as you and I take hold of these things and stand upon them, that we can enjoy the glorious liberty of the children of God, we must assert that there is no condemnation for us. That cannot be because the man in me that was under condemnation, has been dealt with and has died has gone out of existence, he's not there.
So I go on to say another thing, which is this. I no longer belong to the realm of sin. I no longer belong to the dominion of Satan. sin shall not have dominion over us as Paul for you are not under the law, but under grace. How often does he say that sort of thing. You have been translated from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his son. He was given the commission by the risen Lord himself on the road to Damascus to preach that, teaching them he says and enlightening them, and turning them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan unto God. The Christian is not under the dominion of Satan. He's no longer under the power of Satan. He's been conflicted out of that he's been put into a new kingdom. I'm John they all say the same thing. You remember John, in that first epistle of his there right at the very end, says this mighty and magnificent thing. We know that whosoever is born of God's sin is not but he that is begotten of God keep us himself, and that wicked one touch with him not. And we know that we are of God, and that the whole world Laursen the wicked one we don't I no longer belong to the realm of sin or to the dominion of Satan. And this isn't boastfulness. This isn't the kind of spiritual arrogance. This isn't foolhardiness. This is Faith. I must say this, and it is only as I say this, that I can meet Satan, I turned to him and said, You can't touch me Resist the devil and in flee from this is using the sword of the Spirit. This is having the shield of faith in the other hand, this is taking unto me the whole armor of God and standing upon faith, and defying Hanlon, the devil in the name of this Christ, to whom I belong. statement, I no longer belong to the world. But I don't hesitate to say that, thank God. I don't belong to the world with its mind and its outlook and its power and all that it represents. I make my burst in the crust of the Lord Jesus Christ, by in which the world has been crucified unto me and I have been crucified unto the world. Don't you want to say that don't you rejoice in saying it? If the world is still do what it always has been, you're not a Christian. By nature, we all belong to the world and we love it. And we like its things. By nature, we all kind of like the kind of life that's depicted in the newspapers with its suppose at glamour, and its excitement and its thrill. And it's wonder a very good way of knowing whether you're a Christian or not, is this Is that the sort of thing that still appeals to you? You'll see when you become a Christian, there's no need to argue about it. A shutter drops. You don't allow you're no longer hunters things. Some things happen to you can't help yourself. They become distasteful. You see how small and trivial they are. You finish to them something in me was finished with a quite right you're a new creature, ie the old men you see you belong to that is dead is not there. That's the longer the short of it. It's a support and the proof of the tassels great argument.
Are you still with me, my friends? Well, I wonder whether you can come still further with me
Whether you know about the things that I'm about to become a heretic, listen, I'm going to say this to you. Listen carefully to me. If then I do that which I would not, I consent into the law that it is good now that this is what I'm going to say. Now then it is no more I that do it. but sin that dwells in me. I'm going to say that I must say that if all I've said so far is true, this must be true.
When I as a Christian sin, it is no longer on you that I'm doing it.
But it is sin that dwells in me. It's my flesh. It's this law that remembers not in me. Is that heresy? Well, you notice I'm quoting Paul, from the sense of Romans, I wouldn't dare say such a thing myself. But Paul says it and to make doubly certain he says it twice. There it is, in verse 17, of the Seventh Chapter. Now then it is no more either to it, but sin that dwells within me. Listen to verse 20. Now, if I do that, I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin, the dwellers in Mises, who tries over because he knows what fearful creatures we are, and how lacking in faith we are, and how fearful we are. But he says, You must say it, if alive said is true, this must be true. That's it mean? Well, I think it means this. He's already said it, you see in the second verse of the sixth chapter, how shall we that are dead to sin, who have already died to see live any longer therein? Now? I am dead doesn't. There's no need to argue since Paul, it's an absolute fact what happened to you, in Christ and with Christ on the cross means that, that you are dead to sin, that you are finished with it and within you yourself? Yes, but notice this. Boy, mice, myself am dead, the same. What the apostle calls a body of sin remains in me take the six, knowing this, that our Lord men has been crucified with Christ, in order that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin, a kind of body of sin remains in me, and that still has to be destroyed. I myself am dead to sin finished with it. But there is a kind of rally called remnant of sin left in this body of sin, this sin in my flesh, this sin within my members, you notice it puts it like this, I know that in me, then in brackets, that is in my flesh, dwell as no good thing. That's the flesh, this body of sin. And that's why the apostle look forward so much to the redemption of the body, you'll see, he keeps on talking about this redemption of the body. Yes, this relic, this remnant, this body of sin remains in the body in the flesh, but not in me. And therefore it is no longer I had to wait but sin that dwells in me. And that, therefore, according to his mighty argument is the relationship with a Christian to sin, and to living the Christian life. And it all arises from this doctrine of the cross. Yes, while we are left in this world, we will have this problem of the body of sin that remains, and the apostle tells us how to deal with it. And the essence of it is this there's no time obviously, I'm simply giving you the essence of his argument. It's this. Verse 11, likewise, recognize to yourselves also to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive under God. Now, that doesn't mean that you persuade yourself as something that isn't true. What it means is this, that you say to yourself, I am dead to sin. All these things are told me, yes. Anyway, because of these things are true of me. Am I going to allow myself to be subjected to this body of sin that remains me? Certainly not. I'm going to reject it. I'm going to repent, because I know these things. In other words, the way to fight this fight against the remnant, the body of sin that remains is to stand upon your doctrine, to say these things to yourself and to the devil and to every temptation. And then to go on to say what we'll be looking at next Sunday morning, about how having risen With Christ about the new life that's in us, about his life in us, and about the Spirit that He gives us the power and all these things. But wait a minute, start with this doctrine. I have been crucified with Christ, I am no longer under condemnation never can be. I am dead to say, dead to the world. And because of that, I'm not going to be foolish enough to allow a thing like that to control me. Sin cannot have dominion over you. It can't have it mustn't have, it won't.
And therefore I must yield my members as instruments of unrighteousness into sin, but I must yield my members and myself as those who are alive from the dead unto righteousness, and unto God. Well, there it is very hurriedly, and I'm afraid inadequately. But my dear friend, if you've got this, you've got the fundamental postulate out of which you can deduce all the rest. When the Lord Jesus Christ was crucified on the crossing Calgary's Hill, you were also being crucified with him. Your old Adamic meant that you were dying, he is no longer in existence. Realize that thank God for that rejoice in it. And face every problem in life in death everywhere. In the light of that glorious knowledge, Stan festival in the Liberty where with Christ had set you free glory in it and in the crush, by which all this has been brought to pass.
We do hope that you've been helped by the preaching of Dr. Martyn Lloyd Jones. All of the sermons contained within the MlJ trust Audio Library are now available for free download. You may share the sermons or broadcasts them. However, because of international copyright, please be advised that we are asking first, that these sermons never be offered for sale by a third party. And second, that these sermons will not be edited in any way for length or to use as audio clips. You can find our contact information on our website at MlJ trust.org. That's MLJTRU S T dot o RG